right,
so let's talk about our agenda for today.
So I want to start off talking about what
it is and isn't legacy code and just
getting a sense of of what that means.
Then we'll talk a bit about, you know,
before we actually start working with
Copilot to change code, what we should.
Think about doing with our hand.
We'll talk more about managing Copilot
contexts.
I have some interesting information on
that.
Then we'll get into some read-only
techniques since we're working in a
legacy code environment.
And the rules are are quite a bit
different than what we were doing
yesterday by coding.
Isn't as a excuse me,
isn't it a effective in a legacy
environment because you know your code is
running in production and you don't want
to do anything that would affect that. So.
So we want to go through a bunch of read
only techniques that will.
Help us understand the understand the
code better and you know plan what we're
going to be doing and you know create
things like tests and stuff like that
which don't affect the production
application but.
Allow us to move the code base forward.
Then we'll talk about modifying that
legacy code with AI and then we'll and
then managing some change for us.
How do we deal with, for example,
when techniques change or as the
technology moves forward?
Just that fact alone by not not keeping
up with the with the current technologies
our our our code can you know our our
code can decay just just for the for the
fact that we don't actually keep it up to
date.
For working legacy code,
I would recommend this.
Did you take a look at this book?
It's been out for quite a while.
Here it's in thearchive.org.
You can get an E pub version of it and it
it goes through a whole series of steps
that.
Or strategies that you can use to take a
legacy code base and modernize it.
I'm not going to go into into the the the
techniques and strategies that that he
recommends outside of the the first one,
which is you know you need more tests.
But but this the techniques in this book
are are implementable using the AI
technique that can help you actually move
forward more quickly in implementing
these strategies.
All right then.
So we talked about forking the repos.
I think we'll skip that.
And for let's let's talk a bit about the
target repo I have.
We can work in basically two target repos.
One I have is a repo that I've used.
For quite for a little while on this
topic that I created in an early stage of
development of an application for
internal use of code and it has I would
consider it a target rich environment for
improvement as well as we have our
calculator.
An example.
So we can probably bounce back and forth
between those two and demonstrate most of
the techniques I'll be talking about
using them.
But if you're looking for something that
you can actually use that's different
from this,
you can basically use a prompt like I'm
pointing out here that says I go.
Go ahead and get me a a GitHub coding
project that has a lot of open issues.
Did anybody get a chance to do that?
Uh, that's fine. All right, so.
Thing I I forked where the Zeus.
Oh, did you?
Yeah.
All right, cool.
Um.
So no universally accepted definition.
It's sometimes easier to find,
but is not legacy code.
Let's switch over to.
This guy, yeah.
And I think this is kind of an
interesting exercise.
We can go into our quick chat here and
say give me.
Uh, the three definitions.
Oh.
Legacy code.
So there's our three definitions.
Code without test, outdated code,
inherited code. We can.
Say, well,
I don't want just three to give me 10
definitions of legacy code and.
Now it's added under maintainable code,
hard to understand code,
business critical code,
code with technical debt,
non-standard code, code with poor design,
code dependent on legacy systems.
25 definitions of legacy code.
And that will expand more,
more reasons why code can become a legacy.
We can see that there's lots of different
aspects to a legacy code that we're and
from these definitions have.
And and you worked in a legacy code base.
Yes, I have for a few.
Yes.
I'm sure,
I'm sure we all have at some point worked
Y Yes.
And.
in legacy to code because as we saw
yesterday,
it's very easy for code to to to go to go
from Greenfield to legacy.
It doesn't take long for that.
To for that to happen.
So let's turn the question around and say
OK, give me 3 difference of code of code.
That is.
No.
Legacy.
And so,
so it's come back with modern code,
tested code and a well documented code.
And we're going to see that this is going
to be largely the inverse, but.
The the idea is on not legacy code is
that we want to make sure that the code
is basically up to date,
well and well documented and has good
tests. So this is.
What we are interested and then we can do
something very similar and say, OK,
what are the definitions of Evergreen?
Code.
So this is continuously updated.
It's future proof in a well documented,
well tested.
So we we can see that testing is a common
theme here.
Either you don't have enough of it or you
are you have well tested code or and
that's something that we we want to make
sure that we we keep.
Take advantage of.
So let's go back to our slides.
So not like you see code think think
about is they all started,
you know all code starts as Greenfield,
but few codes,
code bases are able to maintain that
server green status.
And the reason for that is that code
bases can degrade over time.
They can basically.
Changes in technology.
The technology moves forward. It was,
you know,
at once it was a Greenfield project in a
particular technology using particular
techniques,
but now those that are old and no longer
considered state-of-the-art.
And so your code base is just by atrophy
has turned into a legacy code base.
The practices and standards for code
change tend to change over time as new
concepts are introduced and new new ways
of coding are are are and that can also
affect the the quality of the code base
and again those practices will change.
Independently of the code.
This is not actually the code degrading
itself,
but it's just becoming out of date.
The people that actually are working on
the code,
they come and go and they have different
techniques that they bring to the table
and then so that can also degrade the
code base over time.
If they don't completely understand how
the original writers of the code intended
for it to be to maintained,
business rules will change and make code
obsolete. The workflows will change,
the architectures will change.
These are all just different ways that
that code can degrade.
And if we go back to that, you know.
List of 25 different ways that code can
be considered legacy. Those are all,
you know,
those are all ways they degrade over time.
So we mentioned Evergreen code.
Evergreen code is actually resist
technical debt.
So that's one of the the the major ideas
here is that we don't want to incur
technical debt.
We want to address technical debt at the
time that well and we don't want to
create it.
We want to we want to address the
technical issues as they.
They come up and not allow that to bog us
down and becomes and degrade the code
early. Evergreen is not legacy,
but everything else is.
And one way of thinking about it is if we
were to write this code all over again,
it would turn out pretty much just like
it is right now.
And as I mentioned,
very few code bases are maintained as
evergreen because it's very difficult to
do because you have all of those change
factors that are affecting the code base
in causing it to become more legacy and
you have to fight.
All of them in order for you to be able
to maintain a code that's evergreen.
But I think AI assistance gives us a tool
that we need in order for us to move
faster and address these technical debt
issues.
Um.
Right off the bat and keep the code
Evergreen as we go forward or move the
move a legacy code base more towards
Evergreen in an effective way and in a in
a way that we've we you know we don't
neglect new features but we're just
moving the code base back into a.
A place where it's easier to maintain.
Any questions on Evergreen?
Now we did a the exercise that the I a
bit of a confession to make in the
exercise yesterday where we ended up with
you know legacy code at the end of it.
I deliberately chose the the the GPT.
50 mini model I want as as as the model
because I I deliberately wanted to make
sure that we ended up with something that
was not Evergreen if I go to that same
exercise with.
Claude Sonnet 5 or 451, sorry,
you'll get a lot closer to Evergreen
Evergreen code using that model because
it's it has I think a better
understanding of what a good code is.
The code is good,
so that's just something to consider and
I'll talk a little bit later about,
you know,
the differences in the model and why some
models are better than other models for
certain things.
But another point is that legacy code
should instill respect, not fear.
This is something I've always felt about
legacy code is that, you know, it works,
it's in production,
it's doing something valuable for the
business and therefore we should respect
it,
but we should not fear making changes to
it and trying to improve it.
So you know it works. Don't break it.
You know it works.
It's well tested typically by the users,
right?
I mean you can one assumption that you
can make for something that's in
production and being used is that it,
you know there it may have still have
some bugs in it,
but it is essentially well tested and you
can start.
Your regressor testing with that
assumption,
and you can move faster by just creating
tests for the changes that you're
introducing,
as opposed to having to worry about
having regression testing for the entire
application. It is what it is.
You get what you get and you don't throw
a fit, you know,
going back to raising children.
And you know, you kind of have to take it,
take it for what it is and and then try
to do what you can to to improve it.
Any questions on these concepts or?
Any thoughts on this?
Yeah,
I have a question just sort of about.
I'm not sure I like fully understand what
you mean by like.
So when you say Evergreen code,
do you mean like this code?
Is so when you say green,
you mean like Greenfield, right?
Yes, right.
It's like it's new code.
So like Evergreen code is basically just
like the practice of like continually
making sure that it's green.
Right, that's right, right.
And that's what it's referred to as
Is that right? OK.
So bye.
Evergreen, right. And you know it takes,
it takes,
you know typically without ASI assistance,
I think it takes a lot of dedication to
keep it, to keep it green.
You have to have buy in for management
that you're not going to take on
technical.
That if you find that you need to
implement something and you need to do
additional technology,
whether that be adding tests or adding
monitoring or any of the things that
typically don't show up as features on a.
On a user screen that you're going to
take the time to do that implementation.
OK, so like the I I guess in my mind,
like the idea is that like you don't,
Good.
you don't write Evergreen code,
you write green code and then you like
keep it green.
And then that's sort of what you mean by
That's right. That's correct.
like Evergreen code. OK, OK,
that makes sense. Thanks.
So let's just talk about some things
before we get into engaging with with
copilot.
We want to have a strategy for backing
out of changes, you know, branching,
tagging, you know, recording a a a commit,
archiving something, zipping something,
anything that will do allows you to go
back because.
Because code generation is non
deterministic,
there's no guarantee that what you're
gonna get is something that's gonna be
suitable for what you need to do,
and you may decide that it's no longer
worth the effort to go down a particular
strategy or path.
You'll wanna go back and go back to a
previous iteration of it and try a
different technique or a different model
or a different way of approaching the
problem. I once had a copilot.
Dissay a little bit because I was trying
to drive towards a particular outcome and
it kept suggesting a strategy that I
didn't,
I didn't really approve of and and so I
kept modifying the prompt and I kept not
getting what I want and I kept undoing it
and undoing it and.
And undoing it.
And then eventually Copilot comes back
and says I've noticed that you've been,
you've not been accepting my changes.
Perhaps I should try a different approach,
which I thought was amazing.
So have a strategy for testing that code.
No matter who or what wrote it,
you need to have confidence that your
test automation will catch the issues
before it reach production.
So you know this is and there's many
different techniques for for this one of
the.
Ones that I like is a feature flagging
and that allows you to essentially deploy
code into production and test it in
production without actually having to
expose it to end users.
That's I think a really effective
approach of moving a code base forward.
And not.
And not actually exposing yourself to too
much risk,
but the idea is that you really need to
have solid tests in order for you to,
I think, engage with a legacy code base.
So that would be and David Feathers talks
about this in his book that that's
something.
The first thing that you need to do and
and that.
But basically what that allows you to do
is to feel confident that if you make a
change that you can you you stop.
You don't have to.
If you don't have that confidence,
you have to stop and and build it first
because you want to make sure that you
have that that confidence.
One of the techniques that I've seen used
very effectively for adding tests to to
the legacy code.
It's something that was called approval
test, but now it's called.
I forget the name of it,
but the idea is it's a simple test
framework that says that.
You know,
if you're looking at a particular output
of of a method,
you can save the entire contents of that
output as a test and then just validate
that the code continues to produce that
output.
You don't don't need to specify
individually every single property or
field's value.
You just you just just make the assertion
that the entire the entire output is
correct and then that will allow you to
create a simple test.
You can do it very quickly.
And Llewellyn Falco did a demonstration
where he had a timer that would go off
every two minutes and he would commit the
code changes with test passing as he was
going through and doing the legacy code
refactoring.
It was a really effective technique in
the sense that you could create the test
very quickly,
you could then verify that you haven't.
Broken anything as you're doing a
refactoring very efficiently and move
forward.
So that's a technique that I've found to
be very useful is using a testing
frameworks that don't require a lot of
effort in order to implement.
You know,
AI can can take a lot of that place.
It doesn't, you know,
AI doesn't care how many properties you
have to test in order to to assert that
something is working correctly.
So that can that can be another way of
approaching that same problem.
And then you need a strategy for
reviewing those changes.
You know the the thing that that that it
will strike you early on is that you are
generating a lot of code and now you have
a lot of code to review and you need a
plan to be able to do that effectively
and that plan may include using AI.
To actually do a do an initial code
review and you can have a part of your
your PR hygiene that it must it must pass
an AI code review before it.
Before you pass it on to a developer to
actually review it,
and that can be effective if we do it,
if we implement the the context correctly
so that the AI reviewer knows what to
what to expect.
And then you want to keep your change
sets as small as possible.
I I mentioned this yesterday.
Don't make those changes incremental as
you saw,
you know you can easily build up a large
number of changes very quickly if you if
you don't keep stay on top of it.
Any any comments or questions here?
I have a question about the AI code
review. What does that look like?
Is it copilot reviewing copilot generated
code or some other AI reviewing the
copilot generated code?
It's usually copilot generate reviewing,
you know, copilot generated code.
You can kind of mitigate for that by
choosing a different model.
And.
You could say I wrote the code in Cloud 4.
5 but I want to review it with ChatGPT.
ChatGPT file file.
And how how exactly do you implement this
to make it automatic in a pull request?
Well,
what you would do is you basically there
there's a, there's a CLI for copilot,
so you can use the CLI to actually run a
a prompt that contains an instruction
that it should use a particular bottle.
And then that will cause that to to
produce that model.
Then you could have the AI review the
review to make sure there's nothing out
of or have the since they have the review
produce a thumbs up or thumbs down
message that would then allow the
pipeline to proceed.
Is.
Is is this something you are going to
demonstrate today or another day?
No, we can look at it.
It's not something I've I've implemented
up to this point, but anyway,
now that I have a PRS working in our repo,
we can take a shot at trying to do
something like that.
Yeah,
I would be really curious to see how how
effective that is and what it looks like.
You know, is it?
Sure, sure.
Is it like a PR decoration with comments
or something more?
Sure. Yeah,
we'll take a look at maybe maybe tomorrow
OK.
or Thursday.
OK. Thanks.
Sure.
OK, so moving on then.
One thing I'd like to to to emphasize I
think is that we want to treat copilot as
a highly skilled junior developer who
needs effective management, right? So.
You know, copilot can do, you know,
do quite a lot of things. In fact,
many times it it'll it'll try and
introduce techniques that I wouldn't.
I'm not really aware of and I have to
actually educate myself on its output in
order for me to understand what it does.
But it's still in a sense constrained by
the context that it's been given and its
ability to produce output,
because remember,
it doesn't really understand the code in
in the same way that we do so.
It so it understands that at a much lower
level and the code that it's generating
is just is.
It's a prediction of what it thinks you
you're expecting,
but it's no guarantee that it will.
So we need to.
We need to both provide it with clear and
direct instructions on what it what we're
expecting and we saw some of that
yesterday I think in our in our exercise
where we would ask for something but not
get not get it back close to what we need
and have to modify our prompts or change
our our our approach to get something
that was closer.
And you know the the formula where you
know clear instructions and careful
review will give us better outcomes.
So context is really important in in this
aspect in that if it's not in the context,
it's not the A I doesn't know about it
and doesn't, it can't, it can't use it.
So there's two aspects to it.
There's having too little context and
then it's having too much.
Too little contents context means that
the A I is open to doing the
implementation in any way that it sees
fit or any way that it thinks it might be
the most appropriate solution that may
not coincide coincide with what your
expectations are.
And too much is that you've got so much
context that the IT can't hold the the
entire context in its token window and
then something and then it has to
basically get rid of some context in
order for it to be able to process and
you don't have control about what it.
Decides to get rid of.
So I'll talk a little bit about how we
can manage that and some techniques that
we have for understanding that.
But that whole process is getting better
in two different ways.
One is that the tooling is improving.
There's a enhancement question and we
might even see something next week on
this in that we're expecting that copilot
will be able to give us more information
about how we're utilizing that context
and.
Whether and helping us know when we've
got too much context and therefore we can
start working on paring that down.
And the other thing is,
is that the as the AI models improve,
they increase the size of the.
The token window and therefore you can,
you know, put more context into it.
In fact,
one of the reasons that Claude saw it is
favored for large scale AI implementation.
Code generation is that it has a larger
context window than ChatGPT 5 or many
other models,
and we'll talk a bit more about that in a
second.
You can manage context with prompts by
crafting effective prompts and using good
prompt.
Engineering techniques.
You can minimize the amount of context
that you're providing and having the
models focus on only the context that you
think is the most important for that task,
and we'll talk a bit about that.
We'll show some examples and build some
prompts.
For to that effort. But you know,
the thing about the context is right now
it's pretty opaque. It's it's kind of hit,
you know,
you're kind of guessing and you're kind
of you don't have any precise tools for
measuring the entire context.
But I'll show you some techniques for
actually getting a sense,
at least a sense of what it what.
What your context looks like.
You can add add context with you know
instructions and markdown instruction
files. We'll go through that.
Those are very useful.
So those are things like file based
custom instructions which does automatic
context injection.
Instruction scopes the the structure and
authoring of best practices and structure
and author structuring and authoring best
practices.
Again the chat modes and then chat modes
are also effective in that sense that
they are like.
They're like prompts that are workflows
and focused on accomplishing a particular
task, and you can,
in those custom chat modes,
specify what what additional things that
you want to bring into your context when
you're actually in that mode.
And what that allows you to do is to say,
OK,
I have all of these different
instructions with some of these
instructions.
Since instruction files are essentially
global in scope,
they basically can you can be you can be.
Filling up your context with instructions
that are not applicable to the task at
hand.
The custom chat modes allow you to
specify specifically what context that
you do want to include,
and then you can take on a persona of a
particular type of.
Change agent like a like a tester or an
architect or a reviewer or some other
persona and then this will allows you to
focus the AI on only that specific
context and it helps you.
Keep your context a little bit more under
control.
So in terms of awareness of context,
Copilot has a limited context window.
It's called a token budget.
But each each A I has a different token
budget and as I mentioned and I'll go,
there's a slide coming up about that,
about how big these are on different
models.
So long prompt files can push the useful
information out of scope.
So we This is why we want to try to
manage context and and premium uses can
be tracked with the the multi dashboard,
but that's a slightly different sense of
context in the in terms of.
You can essentially if you run out of
premium usage tokens, it will.
You'll effectively either have to pay for
them or you cannot use those models until
the end of the month.
So in terms of prompt design,
you want to keep your prompts as shorter
and modular as you can use step-by-step
requests,
reuse prompt files and templates,
and reset the chat if you feel like
you're having issues.
Your answer's drifting and it's not.
If you've noticed that, for example,
the prompt response is slowing down,
you can just go up and clear the chat.
The issue with that is that it's not
specifying what context you're gonna get
rid of.
You're just getting all the context and
now you have to come up.
Up with the strategy for rebuilding that
context and and prompt files can help you
with that.
Chat modes can help you with that and and
so and we'll talk about some of those
things as well, so.
And also talk about how do we save
context and basically resume that context
either at a later date or on a different
machine or just you want to clear out
your context and reestablish it in order
to make things to reduce the size.
The the context window and to get
everything working again you can.
There are techniques that you can use
that can accomplish and help you do that.
And so in terms of management,
you can use those hashtag mentioned to
pull in specific files or folders or
symbols.
This is our something that we can do in
chat modes and in prompt files to to
restrict context you can.
There's a feature called Spaces.
I haven't really worked with a copilot
since I'm primarily working alone on
things,
but you can actually go into into the
copilot UI and you can then specify in
the UI instruction files and other.
Documents for to define a context and
then go into the chat window in the IDE
and then go use the the GitHub tool to
actually recall that space and use that
that context in your current chat window,
which is a.
An interesting way that you could share
essentially A context between multiple
developers so that each one of them is
not rebuilding that context.
But there's two limitations to that,
or at least one limitation that's I think
makes it a little a little useful is that.
While in the spaces you can use it to,
you can add a repository into that space
and include that context.
When you reference that in the IDE,
that repository is no longer in that
context.
And but you're in so you could use in
addition to that like like the code base
tag to include the context of what you're
currently working on.
But what I would but in my my mind it's
like you know just by defining them
within the project and saving them with
the project itself inside of GitHub
Copiler.
Essentially they can accomplish the same
thing and then this is what it's easy to
do is that essentially your contact is it
infers from the files that you actually
have open and you can by just keeping the
number of tabs you have open in the IE to.
As few as possible can reduce the noise
that can can clutter up your context.
So any questions so far on this context?
Not on the context,
but what is the GitHub copilot UI?
The.
Can you give us? Oh, oh,
that's what you meant. OK, thanks.
That's the github.com. It's github.com.
Yeah, yeah.
All right,
so just a couple of ways of dealing with
it.
Premium request dashboard for the usage
tokens.
We showed you that and talked about that.
You keep an eye on on your usage tokens
and token estimation tools like the open
AI tokenizer. If you search for that,
you can.
You can basically give it a a file and it
will tell you how many tokens that it
would need or produced to to load that
file, which is a a interesting way.
And there's a watch for off topic replies.
That could be a sign that it's that your
context is overflowing.
It'll be nice.
It'll be nice if the next week they they
they announced that there there's more
tools for managing context coming into
copilot because that's something that is
I I think a a really useful feature that
would be nice to see.
I did some work with this yesterday after
class and and I have a a a Python a
little bit of Python code to show you
that takes takes advantage of a Python
library that can do some context analysis
and tell you how many.
How much?
How much context you you're you're
currently using using a rough estimate.
It's not, it's not,
it's not entirely accurate,
but it gives you a rough estimation.
So we talked about this coming soon would
be real-time token counters.
And contents usage indicators would be
very nice.
So here's a slide that just talks about
did a couple of different models here
that and how how many tokens they how
they they provide in their token windows.
So Cloud Sonnet 4.5 you know 200,
000 plus you know they don't publish
exactly how many how side what the size
of their window is,
but it's it can it's it's considered to
be over the over 200,000.
200,000 chat to GB5 is 128,
000 for input and 16,000 for output.
So the idea between the difference this
is what you're providing in terms of
context.
This is the number of tokens that it can
use to produce code.
Then Chat TB40 was 64K.
So if you can see here in the progression
just in one iteration it's doubled the
number of tokens and the benefit of Chat
TBT 40 and five is that they are tuned
for IEE workflows.
So there there are there's some, you know,
some benefits for using Tacky B55,
even though it has a smaller window,
it's better at step-by-step operations
and things like that.
Where cloud son it is better for all you
know when you have big context and you
want to be able to do a lot with that
context.
And the basic,
it's a the trade off is basically the
size of your content versus reasoning
style.
So you know each of them have their own
particular approaches.
Uh, any questions on this?
All right, let's talk about. Oh, go ahead.
If I I have a quick question,
if you give it some free text context and
there is a word that repeats 25 times,
is that 25 tokens or just a single token?
Yeah, I'm going.
I don't know for sure on that.
My guess is that it's the single token
and it may break that that word down into
multiple tokens, right? It's tokens.
It's not one to one correspondence, right?
OK.
OK. Thanks.
So MCP servers,
so these are they've only come out you
know earlier in the year.
This is something that Egenics proposed
and implemented and all of the other and
there's been a lot of adoption on this.
This is part of the the move towards
Egenic.
Agenic models and being able to actually
do things with it.
And what this MCP server and tools do is
they provide you with the ability to do a
lot more functional things.
Inside of the when using the chat model.
So the idea when when these first models
came out,
the only thing that you could do was ask.
So if you you asked you know can you can
you create a a method that would do this
and it would.
Output that method into the chat window
and if the ID was sophisticated enough,
you could actually say insert that piece
of code into your code base and it would
move it over into your code.
Then we get into.
Then we got the feature to do edits and
then that would allow us to to do this
essentially automatic insertion in which.
And the other benefit of that is that it
could tell you what code was removed and
what code was added and that was a great
feature.
And then now they've come up with
basically the idea of Agentec.
We're having agents and this agents have
agency to do that.
We saw quite a bit of that yesterday
where we were granting it permissions to
to tools in order for it to do certain
operations so that we would not have to
continually approve those operations.
So you know for for read only commands
there's a.
There's an option that you can put in
your your visual code settings that would
indicate that all read operations are
permitted and then you can cherry pick
the right operations that you want to
allow.
And that can make it working energetic
mode much much easier in in a sense that
it will take take on more of the work on
its own,
do more of the the execution and then
only stop to ask for direction.
Or approval when it encounters a command
that you haven't given an explicit
permission to run.
So what you then has are MCP servers,
and it's always a good idea to try to
keep up on what new servers are available,
particularly in your problem space.
So there are things that can help you.
You improve your coding experience.
You can often find an MCP server that can
help you with doing that. For example,
this one is referring to the Microsoft
Docs.
There's an MCP server for Microsoft Docs
and that would allow you to do searches
of the Microsoft Docs.
For information and the main benefit of
something like that is it keeps you from
having to leave the IDE.
You can stay within Visual Studio Code
and you can do all of your lookups in
Microsoft Docs and use it to help you
write your code and then those MCC.
TCP servers then expose different kinds
of tools.
So you see here that three different
tools are outlined in this diagram.
One is to search the documentation,
one is to fetch a full page of
documentation,
and one is to search for code examples.
So you can specifically say search the
Microsoft docs for a code sample on a
particular.
Or technique and it will return that for
you.
Questions on MCP.
We kind of went over that which was I had
installed.
One of the things to be aware of is the
number of tools that you install is that
there is actually a limit on that,
and if you exceed that limit,
you'll see an icon in the IDE.
Let me see if I can.
Point down here, this tool icon,
you'll get a little warning symbol in it
when you start to exceed that.
You can see here that I've currently
selected the tools. In fact,
if I go down and select this one,
which is the Azure one,
you can see that it jumps up from 52 to.
So adding quite a bit of different 112.
Let me just.
This should we need to do one more.
Now it tells me I've that I have 130
enabled and and an experience may be
degraded from calling more than what
those 80s.
So that's something to keep in mind of
mind up because you that's essentially.
Stealing from your contact window.
That's what I wanted. I wanted BARP,
Python, no SQL Server, no Azure.
And no highlands back to my 52.
Any questions on MCP servers and tools?
And this is a the specification for this
is open so you can you can you can use
copilot to help you create an MCP server
and deploy that and use that within your
IDE if you have a specific need where you
do you have some sort of internal.
Resource that you want to be able to
access,
but you can't do that directly through
the chat window.
You can actually run an MCP server to do
that for you and allow you to retrieve
information from some back end service or
system that you would like to be able to
incorporate into your code generation.
All right, so um.
Any questions? All right,
so I I I showed you the QQ manual we
talked to yesterday about built in and
not built any custom ones and then I just
mentioned the 128 tool limit.
So let's move on and talk about
instruction files.
So this is the 1st place where we can
start to add add a substantial amount of
context and and allow that preserve that
context across all of our prompts and
since instruction files can be.
Uh um.
Get committed into source control.
That means that when you pull you when
you change an instruction file the next
time another developer pulls that from
that repo,
those instruction files will be updated
and and it can be used and and will be
used for prompts going forward in that
project. So this is.
Really effective way of of providing a
great deal of context to to to copilot
and it is it's a great tool for for
controlling what the output looks like
because you're giving very, very specific,
very context related.
Instructions so that you can do things
like project specific instructions where
you describe what the project actually
consists of.
You can do text specific instructions,
which means that whenever you're using
this particular technology,
I want you to follow these instructions.
Things like standards and practices,
like what your coding standards are.
If you have a specific way that you want
to write code as a organization,
you can you can encapsulate those into a
into an instruction file and then the AI
will use these instruction files.
When it's preparing output for you and it
will help you maintain consistency within
your code base. But you have to.
One caveat is that you need to be
consistent with how they're implemented
and not contradictory,
and I'll show you a technique for
determining.
Whether or not your your instruction
files are consistent and which is a
really effective way of of managing
instruction files.
All right, so let's talk about locations.
So there is a a personal file which is in
your home directory in in a GitHub folder.
In your home directory you can put a a a
a copilot instruction file there and
provide instruction files that only apply
to you. The benefit of the the personal.
Instruction files is that it applies to
all projects on your machine or that you
have this personal instruction file
located.
So I tend to use this for things that are
specific to the way I like Copilot to
operate,
though it may not be something that needs
to be shared among the whole team.
But you know it's it's it's useful for
setting up how you want it to reply.
Yesterday you were asking about how to
control the output in terms of how much
verbage it gives you.
A personal you could set up instructions
for that in our personal instruction file.
That way you could say I just give me
very very terse responses and don't give
you and don't give me a lot of
explanation and it will then reduce the
amount of output it gives you.
Specifically that,
and that might be that might be a good
use of the copilot instruction file,
because you may want other people may not
want that same instruction to be to be
used.
When you're dealing with a project level
instructions,
these as I mentioned are committed into
git. They go into a GitHub folder,
typically put them in an instructions
folder under that,
and then I've also used a folder under
the instruction folder called generated,
which I I put instruction files.
That are generated by Copilot in
comparison to instruction files that I've
created personally,
and you should include like a suffix here
on your instruction files that indicate
that.
They are instruction files dot MD files.
All right.
Now let's talk about meta instructions
that I've listed for what I would deal
with meta instruction files that we'll
we'll talk about in some depth because I
think these are really useful and they
are applicable across any project that
you might be working with.
The first one is important or actually
the first two work together.
The the first one is AI assisted output
instructions.
These are instructions that are to guide
how the AI creates the output and I'll
get into the in depth about this,
but this is very powerful way of defining.
When the AI creates an output,
what it should include in that output
over and above what the prompt is asking
for and the copilot instruction file or
instruction files are for using copilot
effectively.
So you have a specific way that you want
copilot to behave or.
That you want Copilot to be aware of,
you can put it there.
The third one is an instruction prompt
instruction file.
So this is instructions for creating
effective prompts.
So,
so the idea here is that if I if I
execute this or I put this into my
project, whenever I create a prompt file,
I actually.
Yeah,
then it will follow these instructions
and make sure that prompt file conforms
to a particular standard and has
particular particular aspects about it.
It allows you to standardize the the the
way in which instructions are built or a
prop files are built and it allows you to
to to define.
What every prop file should have in terms
of its structure and the 4th one here is
a prompt file instruction and it's
instructions for prompts.
It's a little bit more targeted than this
that actually generate instruction files.
So this helps you define what you would
create or.
Have in your instruction.
So I wanna switch now to the AI assisted
and this is the test 1.
Yeah, OK.
All right, so this has a bunch of.
This is the the the one of the one of the
repositories that I suggested that you
would fork. It has chat modes,
instruction files, prompts in it.
It has some scripts and some workflows.
Um defined in it and um.
So let's talk about the instruction files,
and let's talk specifically about these
instruction files here.
The instruction file output.
It's just an output one is, I think,
a very interesting one.
And let me open that a new window so we
can see the whole thing.
So notice that this file has a a header
assigned to it.
This is a metadata and it specifies a
number of things about.
How it is how AI assisted output should
be created and one of the things that it
it specifies is that it should that all
your AI generated output should have a
header that describes what was the prompt
that created it.
How long it took to execute that there
should be an A I log with the with that
conversation so that you record what the
actual conversation was and what the
output was from the A I.
What was the source of this,
which is the the prompt file that was
actually executed and what it should
apply to and.
So these uh.
So some some of the benefits.
So this is a we want clear provenance for
this.
We want to be able to have actually an
audit trail that will allow us to
understand how AI was actually used to
create the artifacts in a repository.
And notice it has a a whole list of
things that it wants to have included and
you know things like enforcement within
the C CICD pipeline,
the copilot implementation requirements
and here it's referencing.
Some GitHub Copilot implementation.
These are all different sections that we
can view the chocolate.
There's a chat logging workflow,
and it's the placement and naming of
things, the implementations.
The scope, the terminology,
a whole range of things that we want to
have in the output that's created.
Like I said,
the main benefit of this I think is 2
things is it it it requires that you have
some metadata here about this.
In all the files that that can support it
in line, and if it doesn't,
if it if it doesn't support it,
like say it's an artifact which is a
binary file,
it will it'll create a sidecar file that
contains this metadata about that file
and and so that way you'll have this.
this metadata that describes the content
of the file.
And then the other thing I think is
important about this is that it will
create this AI log,
which actually allows you to do a couple
of different things.
One is that it does record the
conversation history for that particular
chat.
A session and it also creates a summary
file of that chat session which is
suitable for renewing.
So you can essentially once that summary
file is committed to source code,
some other developer or you at a later
time can add.
Add that summary file to your context and
it will allow you to resume that process
at the point that it left off and it will
keep track in the session file.
If you're in a multi step operation,
what step was the current step?
What the context was of that of that
current step and then it will allow you
to actually resume that session,
which is a really handy feature if you're
you're in a if you're in a chat session
that is going to be lengthy and it's
going to involve a lot of back and forth
between you and the AI.
Is to be able to essentially update that
summary file and then you can clear your
chat window to clear up your context
window and then just add that one.
That one summary file back into your
context and you can then resume that
operation at that point.
So any questions on that?
Let me let me show you some.
We've seen examples of that go ahead.
John, I I hate to interrupt,
but I think we have another meeting
starting in like 3 minutes,
like all of us.
Oh, yeah, sure. All right, great. Well,
this is a good place to stop.
We've gone through these,
the AI and system one. We'll come back,
we'll talk about the the copilot
instructions and some of the things for
generating prompts and instruction files
and the the guidance that we're going to
give AI about